Now in the last lecture we've seen that if we tried to fudge on a non-existent resource the one that
we have just deleted or set some reserves that just didn't exist at all like this one with 500.
We get this not very nice.
Jason responds.
Now it's a good time to introduce a concept of so-called fallback routes so fallback route is a route
that you will define in either web BHP or API BHP and the important thing is that this has to be low
last route defined inside this specific file.
Now having this route fallback allows you to return a response when Well for example no other route
could be matched.
So you can return some specific Jason response here.
Now let's say we do not have this route yet And first let's try to go to our route that we know doesn't
exist.
Something like this so you also get an exception in this case not found HDP exception.
So this has been converted and I will show you how bi lateral to adjacent response.
But first let's add this fallback route.
Okay now insiders we can return our Jason response.
So return response.
Jason and specify some messages.
So message could be not found and dismantled accept second parameter which should be the status code
to return.
And of course with the case of something wasn't found we should return 404.
This is the standard code for signaling back that something was found.
Now save the changes and let's go back to postman so you can see that the first thing we have achieved
is returning a nicer response when something wasn't found.
And in this specific case something wasn't found.
Means that the route wasn't marched.
So now let's modify this we are all back to resource that we have just deleted.
And try sending this again and this time we get this response that we don't really like.
So let's see how this all works in Lavell.
So we have this fallback route which is being defined using a route fallback that only returns are simple
Jason response when the user accepts Jason back but the most work and settings for this are inside the
handler BHP class which actually exists in your project and it can be found inside the app.
Exceptions handler.
So this is a lot of exception handler now.
This only has two methods and the one that interests us is to render.
As you can see from the description it renders an exception into AGW response so when something bad
happens in your ARB This is deciding what to return back to the user.
Now you should go by out clicking to this spa and render cold because it actually extends a class from
larval so let's do that now inside this render method you can see some more details and what we get.
Barking postman is actually this fragment.
So first it is checking whether you expect Jason back from the response and it decides that by looking
at the accept header and then calling either proper G.
Jason response or proper response.
So this is being returned back when you accept Jason back and this one when you just want to h the email.
Now let's also out click prepare Jason response and what you can see now is basically how our response
get generated.
So it has some additional methods for converting exception to an array but well that's not very interesting
right now.
Just so you know this is being handled in this place but if you will open this render method again you
can see that there are also some specific cases.
So Lara VO inside this render method is checking whether the race to reset the raised exception is of
specific type and then it also is producing a specific response for these particular exceptions like
authentication exception when you are not authenticated or a validation exception when you validate
some data coming to your end point and this is invalid if you will take a look at this.
This authenticated it also is producing a specific response depending whether you expect Jason Bach
now we can also do something like this inside our handler.
So before this will pass to this parent render method we can check for something.
Now in case of the problem that we have right here.
So when we try to fetch a model that doesn't exist we can check if exception is of specific kind music
instance of this will just check if the exception object is of specific class.
Now we want to use model not found exception so mind that you will need to add this use statement here
and when this is of this specific class and also when request
expects Jason so those two condemned conditions have to be met we can modify how the response is being
generated.
So instead of passing it to this render method of the parent class letting this be handled here and
generating well an exception converted to Jason we can instead use something like this so we can return
our full back route.
So you'll have to call route first.
We need to import the specific class so let's find it.
This is this one illuminates support phosphates root and then the method is respond with root so now
that we have defined our fallback route we can also give a name to it.
API fallback remember is very important.
The fallback route has to be last one defined inside the file
and inside our handler.
We are telling Lara VO that each should respond with this fallback route.
If the exception is of the type model not found exception and the request is expecting to get Jason
back.
So after this changes if you will try to fetch a model that doesn't exist.
Yes apparently I've used the wrong method.
It's not a response we fruit is respond with root and let's try that again.
Now if you will try to fetch this model that doesn't exist you are also being returned the adjustment
Jay-Z the Jason that you have defined inside the fallback route so let's recap.
So first we have added a fallback route just for the API so if some end point wouldn't be found.
Then this fallback route will automatically return this J some of response with specific status code.
And also we figured that there is r handler for handling exceptions that has some functionality built
in and e using a base class and its render method that can render the response based on what the user
is expecting whether this is Jason or HDL but that it can also return some specific responses based
on that actual error that happened and we use that to return our specific response by calling route
respond with route which would return our response using this fallback route that we have just defined
only if we expect Jason and the exception of kind model not found exception is from and this is always
from when Lara VO tries to load the model and it couldn't find it it doesn't exist inside the database.
So this is how you can nicely handle this exceptions in your API.